- [Instructor] So, let's pick up from where we left off.
We were about to run this project,
but before that a small point.
We also have to write the doGet method in the servlet.
And this method's sole objective
is to get us to the register.html file.
And the strategy that we want to use
is exactly calling the same method that we did before.
So, what I'm going to do is,
I'm going to say String page.
I am going to call that getHTMLString method.
I'm going to pass the file path
using the servlet context.
And the place holder for the message right now
is nothing.
It's going to be empty when the page loads for the first time.
So, I'm just going to do that
and then take the response object
and write this entire thing back to the client.
Right?
We also need to do one more thing.
The database out is ready with me
and when we finally run these changes
we are going to come to the database
and see that the user indeed got inserted
into the user's table.
So, let's go ahead and deploy these changes now.
And additionally, let's do a check.
Yes, the form action is correctly entered
on the index HTML as well,
I'm going to enter the same action,
but for the index HTML hyperlink
the method is going to be doGet
because a href always calls the doGet method.
So, when you click on a hyperlink
just remember in an email application
if the click on a hyperlink
is supposed to go to the server side,
it's always a doGet call.
So, that's how it is going to reach this doGet
from where we're going to go to register HTML
and once we submit the form on registration HTML
we are going to come to this doPost.
So, now let's go ahead and
run this application in the browser
and check the changes.
So, say Run As Run on Server.
Take this URL,
go to the browser, paste it,
access the home,
and click on the new user hyperlink.
So, that's the register user form.
So, let's enter some information here
and let's say I want to Hit the Gym.
So, let's click on the submit button.
Yes, the message is out there.
The user has been registered successfully.
Let's quickly go to the database
and query the user's table and that's where you are.
You have all your information stowed as a record
inside the database table.
So, this is how a post-request works.
Now, we just summarize.
We have seen the Get request
and we have seen the Post request
and a common question that may float in the mind is,
what happens exactly behind the scenes?
So, this is your context root URL, as we know.
If we hit the URL pattern for a servlet through the URL
it's a Get request.
If we go through the form element,
then it could either be a Get or a Post,
depending on what kind of attribute
you attached to this method.
We know this.
Now, let's quickly understand briefly
how this entire thing happens behind the scene.
What the server container does is
it takes your URL, let's say,
you're accessing a URL pattern of getServlet.
Let's say you're hitting this request.
What happens exactly is
it takes this relative URL pattern
and it will scan your web XML file.
Or your annotation configuration in the respective classes.
Because of the scanning
it understands which servlet it is supposed to go to.
And depending on the kind of request that you're making,
either a Get or a Post,
then it enters your specific doGet
or the doPost method.
That is how this entire thing works behind the scenes.
We as developers do not do anything.
The container takes the entire responsibility for this.
Right?
And whatever response you are getting generated
from the servlet is written back to the client.
It could be a text or it could be an entire HTML
the way we have been writing so far.